[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2015 December Contest, Platinum

Problem 2. High Card Low Card (Platinum)

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es)

Bessie the cow is a huge fan of card games, which is quite surprising,
given her lack of opposable thumbs. Unfortunately, none of the other
cows in the herd are good opponents. They are so bad, in fact, that they
always play in a completely predictable fashion! Nonetheless, it can
still be a challenge for Bessie to figure out how to win.

Bessie and her friend Elsie are currently playing a simple card game
where they take a deck of $2N$ cards, conveniently numbered $1 \ldots
2N$, and divide them into $N$ cards for Bessie and $N$ cards for Elsie.
The two then play $N$ rounds, where in each round Bessie and Elsie both
play a single card. Initially, the player who plays the highest card
earns a point. However, at one point during the game, Bessie can decide
to switch the rules so that for the rest of the game, the player who
plays the lowest card wins a point. Bessie can choose not to use this
option, leaving the entire game in "high card wins" mode, or she can
even invoke the option right away, making the entire game follow the
"low card wins" rule.

Given that Bessie can predict the order in which Elsie will play her
cards, please determine the maximum number of points Bessie can win.

INPUT FORMAT (file cardgame.in):

The first line of input contains the value of N ($2 \leq N \leq
50,000$).

The next N lines contain the cards that Elsie will play in each of the
successive rounds of the game. Note that it is easy to determine
Bessie's cards from this information.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file cardgame.out):

Output a single line giving the maximum number of points Bessie can
score.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    4
    1
    8
    4
    3

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    3

Here, Bessie must have cards 2, 5, and 6, and 7 in her hand, and she can
use these to win at most 3 points. For example, she can defeat the 1
card and then switch the rules to "low card wins", after which she can
win two more rounds.

Problem credits: Austin Bannister and Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
