[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2016 January Contest, Silver

Problem 3. Build Gates

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) Bulgarian (bg) French (fr) Russian (ru)
Spanish (es) Serbian (rs)

Farmer John decides to build a new fence around parts of his farm, but
he keeps getting distracted and ends up building the fence into a much
stranger shape than he intended!

Specifically, FJ starts at position $(0,0)$ and takes $N$ steps, each
moving one unit of distance north, south, east, or west. Each step he
takes, he lays a unit of fence behind him. For example, if his first
step is to the north, he adds a segment of fence from $(0,0)$ to
$(0,1)$. FJ might re-visit points multiple times and he may even lay the
same segment of fence multiple times. His fence might even cross over
itself if his path cuts through a run of fencing he has already built.

Needless to say, FJ is rather dismayed at the result after he completes
the fence. In particular, he notices that it may be the case that he has
now partitioned off some areas of the farm from others, so that one can
no longer walk from one region to another without crossing a fence. FJ
would like to add gates to his fences to fix this problem. A gate can be
added to any unit-length segment of fence he has built, allowing passage
between the two sides of this segment.

Please determine the minimum number of gates FJ needs to build so that
every region of the farm is once again reachable from every other
region.

INPUT FORMAT (file gates.in):

The first line of input contains $N$ ($1 \leq N \leq 1000$). The next
line contains a string of length $N$ describing FJ's path. Each
character is either N (north), E (east), S (south), or W (west).

OUTPUT FORMAT (file gates.out):

Write out a single integer giving the minimum number of gates FJ needs
to build to restore complete connectivity to all regions of his farm.
Note that the answer could be zero if the farm is connected to begin
with.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    14
    NNNESWWWSSEEEE

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    2

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
