[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2016 January Contest, Bronze

Problem 1. Promotion Counting

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Serbian
(rs)

Bessie the cow is helping Farmer John run the USA Cow Olympiad (USACO),
an on-line contest where participants answer challenging questions to
demonstrate their mastery of bovine trivia.

In response to a wider range of participant backgrounds, Farmer John
recently expanded the contest to include four divisions of difficulty:
bronze, silver, gold, and platinum. All new participants start in the
bronze division, and any time they score perfectly on a contest they are
promoted to the next-higher division. It is even possible for a
participant to be promoted several times within the same contest. Farmer
John keeps track of a list of all contest participants and their current
divisions, so that he can start everyone out at the right level any time
he holds a contest.

When publishing the results from his most recent contest, Farmer John
wants to include information on the number of participants who were
promoted from bronze to silver, from silver to gold, and from gold to
platinum. However, he neglected to count promotions as they occurred
during the contest. Bessie, being the clever bovine she is, realizes
however that Farmer John can deduce the number of promotions that
occurred solely from the number of participants at each level before and
after the contest. Please help her perform this computation!

INPUT FORMAT (file promote.in):

Input consists of four lines, each containing two integers in the range
0..1,000,000. The first line specifies the number of bronze participants
registered before and after the contest. The second line specifies the
number of silver participants before and after the contest. The third
line specifies the number of gold participants before and after the
contest. The last line specifies the number of platinum participants
before and after the contest.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file promote.out):

Please output three lines, each containing a single integer. The first
line should contain the number of participants who were promoted from
bronze to silver. The second line should contain the number of
participants who were promoted from silver to gold. The last line should
contain the number of participants who were promoted from gold to
platinum.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    1 2
    1 1
    1 1
    1 2

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    1
    1
    1

In this example, 1 participant was registered in each division prior to
the contest. At the end of the contest, 2 participants were registered
in bronze and platinum. One way this could have happened is that 2 new
participants joined during the contest; one was promoted all the way to
platinum, and the other stayed in bronze.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
