[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2017 December Contest, Bronze

Problem 3. Milk Measurement

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es)

Farmer John purchases three cows: Bessie, Elsie, and Mildred, each of
whom initially produces 7 gallons of milk per day. Since the milk output
of a cow is known to potentially change over time, Farmer John takes
periodic measurements over the next 100 days and scribbles them down in
a log book. Entries in his log look like this:

    35 Bessie -2
    14 Mildred +3

The first entry indicates that on day 35, Bessie's milk output was 2
gallons lower than it was when last measured. The next entry indicates
that on day 14, Mildred's milk output increased by 3 gallons from when
it was last measured. Farmer John has only enough time to make at most
one measurement on any given day. Unfortunately, he is a bit
disorganized, and doesn't necessarily write down his measurements in
chronological order.

To keep his cows motivated, Farmer John proudly displays on the wall of
his barn the picture of whichever cow currently has the highest milk
output (if several cows tie for the highest milk output, he displays all
of their pictures). Please determine the number of days on which Farmer
John would have needed to change this display.

INPUT FORMAT (file measurement.in):

The first line of input contains $N$, the number of measurements Farmer
John makes. Each of the next $N$ lines contains one measurement, in the
format above, specifying a day (an integer in the range 1..100), the
name of a cow, and the change in her milk output since it was last
measured (a nonzero integer). Each cow's milk output will always be in
the range 0..1000.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file measurement.out):

Please output the number of days (an integer in the range 0..100) on
which Farmer John needs to adjust his motivational display.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    4
    7 Mildred +3
    4 Elsie -1
    9 Mildred -1
    1 Bessie +2

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    3

Initially, all cows have milk output 7. On day 1, Bessie's milk output
increases to 9, making her the unique cow with highest milk output and
causing Farmer John to change his display. On day 4, Elsie's milk output
decreases to 6, but this does not change the fact that Bessie is the
sole cow in the lead. On day 7, Mildred jumps into the lead, changing
the display, and on day 9, Mildred drops in production to be tied with
Bessie, again changing the display.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
