[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2017 February Contest, Bronze

Problem 2. Why Did the Cow Cross the Road II

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Georgian (ka) Indonesian (id)
Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Vietnamese (vi)

The layout of Farmer John's farm is quite peculiar, with a large
circular road running around the perimeter of the main field on which
his cows graze during the day. Every morning, the cows cross this road
on their way towards the field, and every evening they all cross again
as they leave the field and return to the barn.

As we know, cows are creatures of habit, and they each cross the road
the same way every day. Each cow crosses into the field at a different
point from where she crosses out of the field, and all of these crossing
points are distinct from each-other. Farmer John owns exactly 26 cows,
which he has lazily named A through Z (he is not sure what he will do if
he ever acquires a 27th cow...), so there are precisely 52 crossing
points around the road. Farmer John records these crossing points
concisely by scanning around the circle clockwise, writing down the name
of the cow for each crossing point, ultimately forming a string with 52
characters in which each letter of the alphabet appears exactly twice.
He does not record which crossing points are entry points and which are
exit points.

Looking at his map of crossing points, Farmer John is curious how many
times various pairs of cows might cross paths during the day. He calls a
pair of cows $(a,b)$ a "crossing" pair if cow $a$'s path from entry to
exit must cross cow $b$'s path from entry to exit. Please help Farmer
John count the total number of crossing pairs.

INPUT FORMAT (file circlecross.in):

The input consists of a single line containing a string of 52 upper-case
characters. Each letter of the alphabet appears exactly twice.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file circlecross.out):

Please print the total number of crossing pairs.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    ABCCABDDEEFFGGHHIIJJKKLLMMNNOOPPQQRRSSTTUUVVWWXXYYZZ

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    1

In this example, only cows A and B are a crossing pair.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
