[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2017 February Contest, Bronze

Problem 1. Why Did the Cow Cross the Road

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Georgian (ka) Indonesian (id)
Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Vietnamese (vi)

While the age-old question of why chickens cross roads has been
addressed in great depth by the scientific community, surprisingly
little has been published in the research literature on the related
subject of cow crossings. Farmer John, well-aware of the importance of
this issue, is thrilled when he is contacted by a local university
asking for his assistance in conducting a scientific study of why cows
cross roads. He eagerly volunteers to help.

As part of the study, Farmer John has been asked to document the number
of times each of his cows crosses the road. He carefully logs data about
his cows' locations, making a series of $N$ observations over the course
of a single day. Each observation records the ID number of a cow (an
integer in the range $1 \ldots 10$, since Farmer John has 10 cows), as
well as which side of the road the cow is on.

Based on the data recorded by Farmer John, please help him count the
total number of confirmed crossings. A confirmed crossing occurs when a
consecutive sightings of a cow place it on different sides of the road.

INPUT FORMAT (file crossroad.in):

The first line of input contains the number of observations, $N$, a
positive integer at most 100. Each of the next $N$ lines contains one
observation, and consists of a cow ID number followed by its position
indicated by either zero or one (zero for one side of the road, one for
the other side).

OUTPUT FORMAT (file crossroad.out):

Please compute the total number of confirmed crossings.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    8
    3 1
    3 0
    6 0
    2 1
    4 1
    3 0
    4 0
    3 1

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    3

In this example, cow 3 crosses twice -- she first appears on side 1,
then later appears on side 0, and then later still appears back on side
1. Cow 4 definitely crosses once. Cows 2 and 6 do not appear to cross.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
