[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2017 January Contest, Bronze

Problem 1. Don't Be Last!

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Vietnamese (vi)

Farmer John owns 7 dairy cows: Bessie, Elsie, Daisy, Gertie, Annabelle,
Maggie, and Henrietta. He milks them every day and keeps detailed
records on the amount of milk provided by each cow during each milking
session. Not surprisingly, Farmer John highly prizes cows that provide
large amounts of milk.

Cows, being lazy creatures, don't necessarily want to be responsible for
producing too much milk. If it were up to them, they would each be
perfectly content to be the lowest-producing cow in the entire herd.
However, they keep hearing Farmer John mentioning the phrase "farm to
table" with his human friends, and while they don't quite understand
what this means, they have a suspicion that it actually may not be the
best idea to be the cow producing the least amount of milk. Instead,
they figure it's safer to be in the position of producing the
second-smallest amount of milk in the herd. Please help the cows figure
out which of them currently occupies this desirable position.

INPUT FORMAT (file notlast.in):

The input file for this task starts with a line containing the integer
$N$ ($1 \leq N \leq 100$), giving the number of entries in Farmer John's
milking log.

Each of the $N$ following lines contains the name of a cow (one of the
seven above) followed by a positive integer (at most 100), indicating
the amount of milk produced by the cow during one of its milking
sessions.

Any cow that does not appear in the log at all is assumed to have
produced no milk.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file notlast.out):

On a single line of output, please print the name of the cow that
produces the second-smallest amount of milk. More precisely, if $M$ is
the minimum total amount of milk produced by any cow, please output the
name of the cow whose total production is minimal among all cows that
produce more than $M$ units of milk. If several cows tie for this
designation, or if no cow has this designation (i.e., if all cows have
production equal to $M$), please output the word "Tie". Don't forget to
add a newline character at the end of your line of output. Note that
$M=0$ if one of the seven cows is completely absent from the milking
log, since this cow would have produced no milk.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    10
    Bessie 1
    Maggie 13
    Elsie 3
    Elsie 4
    Henrietta 4
    Gertie 12
    Daisy 7
    Annabelle 10
    Bessie 6
    Henrietta 5

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    Henrietta

In this example, Bessie, Elsie, and Daisy all tie for the minimum by
each producing 7 units of milk. The next-largest production, 9 units, is
due to Henrietta.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
