[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2017 US Open Contest, Silver

Problem 3. Where's Bessie?

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es)

Always known for being quite tech-savy, Farmer John is testing out his
new automated drone-mounted cow locator camera, which supposedly can
take a picture of his field and automatically figure out the location of
cows. Unfortunately, the camera does not include a very good algorithm
for finding cows, so FJ needs your help developing a better one.

The overhead image of his farm taken by the camera is described by an $N
\times N$ grid of characters, each in the range $A \ldots Z$,
representing one of 26 possible colors. Farmer John figures the best way
to define a potential cow location (PCL) is as follows: A PCL is a
rectangular sub-grid (possibly the entire image) with sides parallel to
the image sides, not contained within any other PCL (so no smaller
subset of a PCL is also a PCL). Furthermore, a PCL must satisfy the
following property: focusing on just the contents of the rectangle and
ignoring the rest of the image, exactly two colors must be present, one
forming a contiguous region and one forming two or more contiguous
regions.

For example, a rectangle with contents

    AAAAA
    ABABA
    AAABB

would constitute a PCL, since the A's form a single contiguous region
and the B's form more than one contiguous region. The interpretation is
a cow of color A with spots of color B.

A region is "contiguous" if you can traverse the entire region by moving
repeatedly from one cell in the region to another cell in the region
taking steps up, down, left, or right.

Given the image returned by FJ's camera, please count the number of
PCLs.

INPUT FORMAT (file where.in):

The first line of input contains $N$, the size of the grid ($1 \leq N
\leq 20$). The next $N$ lines describe the image, each consisting of $N$
characters.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file where.out):

Print a count of the number of PCLs in the image.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    4
    ABBC
    BBBC
    AABB
    ABBC

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    2

In this example, the two PCLs are the rectangles with contents

    ABB
    BBB
    AAB
    ABB

and

    BC
    BC
    BB
    BC

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
