[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2017 February Contest, Bronze

Problem 3. Why Did the Cow Cross the Road III

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Georgian (ka) Indonesian (id)
Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Vietnamese (vi)

Farmer John, in his old age, has unfortunately become increasingly
grumpy and paranoid. Forgetting the extent to which bovine diversity
helped his farm truly flourish over the years, he has recently decided
to build a huge fence around the farm, discouraging cows from
neighboring farms from visiting, and completely prohibiting entry from a
handful of neighboring farms. The cows are quite upset by this state of
affairs, not only since they can no longer visit with their friends, but
since it has caused them to cancel participation in the International
Milking Olympiad, an event to which they look forward all year.

Neighboring cows that still have the ability to enter Farmer John's
property find the process has become more arduous, as they can enter
only through a single gate where each cow is subject to intense
questioning, often causing the cows to queue up in a long line.

For each of the $N$ cows visiting the farm, you are told the time she
arrives at the gate and the duration of time required for her to answer
her entry questions. Only one cow can be undergoing questioning at any
given time, so if many cows arrive near the same time, they will likely
need to wait in line to be processed one by one. For example, if a cow
arrives at time 5 and answers questions for 7 units of time, another cow
arriving at time 8 would need to wait until time 12 to start answering
questions herself.

Please determine the earliest possible time by which all cows are able
to enter the farm.

INPUT FORMAT (file cowqueue.in):

The first line of input contains $N$, a positive integer at most 100.
Each of the next $N$ lines describes one cow, giving the time it arrives
and the time it requires for questioning; each of these numbers are
positive integers at most 1,000,000.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file cowqueue.out):

Please determine the minimum possible time at which all the cows could
have completed processing.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    3
    2 1
    8 3
    5 7

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    15

Here, first cow arrives at time 2 and is quickly processed. The gate
remains briefly idle until the third cow arrives at time 5, and begins
processing. The second cow then arrives at time 8 and waits until time
5+7=12 to start answering questions, finishing at time 12+3 = 15.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
