[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2019 US Open Contest, Silver

Problem 1. Left Out

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Chinese (zh)

Farmer John is attempting to take a photograph of his herd of cows. From
past experience, he knows this particular endeavor never usually ends
well.

This time, Farmer John has purchased an expensive drone in order to take
an aerial photo. To make the photo look as good as possible, he wants
his cows all to be facing the same direction when the photo is taken.
The cows are currently arranged in an $N \times N$ grid ($2 \leq N \leq
1000$) inside a fenced-in square pasture, for example:

    RLR
    RRL
    LLR

Here, an 'R' means a cow facing right, and an 'L' means a cow facing
left. Since the cows are packed together, Farmer John cannot walk up to
an individual cow to make it turn around. All he can do is shout at any
row or column of cows to turn around, causing L's to change to R's and
R's to L's within the row or column in question. Farmer John can yell at
as many rows or columns as he wants, even at the same row or column more
than once.

As expected, Farmer John observes that he is unable to make his cows all
face one common direction. The best he can do is get all but one of the
cows to face the same direction. Please determine the identity of such a
cow.

INPUT FORMAT (file leftout.in):

The first line contains $N$. The next $N$ lines describe rows $1 \ldots
N$ in the grid of cows, each containing a string of length $N$.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file leftout.out):

Print the row and column index of a cow such that if that cow were
flipped, Farmer John could make all his cows face the same direction. If
no such cow exists, print -1. If multiple such cows exist, print the one
with the smallest row index, or if multiple such cows have the same
smallest row index, print the one with the smallest column index.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    3
    RLR
    RRL
    LLR

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    1 1

In the example above, the cow in row 1, column 1 (the upper-left corner)
is the offending cow, since Farmer John can shout at row 2 and column 3
to make all other cows face left, with just this cow facing right.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
