[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2019 January Contest, Bronze

Problem 3. Guess the Animal

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Chinese (zh)

When bored of playing their usual shell game, Bessie the cow and her
friend Elsie like to play another common game called "guess the animal".

Initially, Bessie thinks of some animal (most of the time, this animal
is a cow, making the game rather boring, but occasionally Bessie is
creative and thinks of something else). Then Elsie proceeds to ask a
series of questions to figure out what animal Bessie has selected. Each
question asks whether the animal has some specific characteristic, and
Bessie answers each question with "yes" or "no". For example:

    Elsie: "Does the animal fly?" 
    Bessie: "No" 
    Elsie: "Does the animal eat grass?" 
    Bessie: "Yes" 
    Elsie: "Does the animal make milk?"
    Bessie: "Yes" 
    Elsie: "Does the animal go moo?"
    Bessie: "Yes" 
    Elsie: "In that case I think the animal is a cow." 
    Bessie: "Correct!"

If we call the "feasible set" the set of all animals with
characteristics consistent with Elsie's questions so far, then Elsie
keeps asking questions until the feasible set contains only one animal,
after which she announces this animal as her answer. In each question,
Elsie picks a characteristic of some animal in the feasible set to ask
about (even if this characteristic might not help her narrow down the
feasible set any further). She never asks about the same characteristic
twice.

Given all of the animals that Bessie and Elsie know as well as their
characteristics, please determine the maximum number of "yes" answers
Elsie could possibly receive before she knows the right animal.

INPUT FORMAT (file guess.in):

The first line of input contains the number of animals, $N$ ($2 \leq N
\leq 100$). Each of the next $N$ lines describes an animal. The line
starts with the animal name, then an integer $K$ ($1 \leq K \leq 100$),
then $K$ characteristics of that animal. Animal names and
characteristics are strings of up to 20 lowercase characters (a..z). No
two animals have exactly the same characteristics.

OUTPUT FORMAT (file guess.out):

Please output the maximum number of "yes" answers Elsie could receive
before the game ends.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    4
    bird 2 flies eatsworms
    cow 4 eatsgrass isawesome makesmilk goesmoo
    sheep 1 eatsgrass
    goat 2 makesmilk eatsgrass

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    3

In this example, it is possible for Elsie to generate a transcript with
3 "yes" answers (the one above), and it is not possible to generate a
transcript with more than 3 "yes" answers.

Problem credits: Brian Dean

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
