[]

-   Overview
-   Training
-   Contests
-   History
-   Staff
-   Resources

USACO 2021 January Contest, Bronze

Problem 1. Uddered but not Herd

Return to Problem List

Contest has ended.

[]

Log in to allow submissions in analysis mode

English (en) Armenian (hy) French (fr) Russian (ru) Spanish (es) Chinese
(zh)

A little known fact about cows is that they have their own version of
the alphabet, the "cowphabet". It consists of the 26 letters 'a' through
'z', but when a cow speaks the cowphabet, she lists these letters in a
specific ordering that might be different from the order
'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz' we are used to hearing.

To pass the time, Bessie the cow has been humming the cowphabet over and
over again, and Farmer John is curious how many times she's hummed it.

Given a lowercase string of letters that Farmer John has heard Bessie
say, compute the minimum number of times Bessie must have hummed the
entire cowphabet in order for Farmer John to have heard the given
string. Farmer John isn't always paying attention to what Bessie hums,
and so he might have missed some of the letters that Bessie has hummed.
The string you are told consists of just the letters that he remembers
hearing.

INPUT FORMAT (input arrives from the terminal / stdin):

The first line of input contains the 26 lowercase letters 'a' through
'z' in the order they appear in the cowphabet. The next line contains
the string of lowercase letters that Farmer John heard Bessie say. This
string has length at least $1$ and at most $1000$.

OUTPUT FORMAT (print output to the terminal / stdout):

Print the minimum number of times Bessie must have hummed the entire
cowphabet.

SAMPLE INPUT:

    abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
    mood

SAMPLE OUTPUT:

    3

In this example, the cowphabet is ordered the same as the normal
alphabet.

Bessie must have hummed the cowphabet at least three times. It is
possible for Bessie to have only hummed the cowphabet three times, and
for Farmer John to have heard the letters in uppercase as denoted below.

    abcdefghijklMnOpqrstuvwxyz
    abcdefghijklmnOpqrstuvwxyz
    abcDefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

SCORING:

-   In test cases 2-5, the cowphabet is the same as the normal alphabet.
-   Test cases 6-10 satisfy no additional constraints.

Problem credits: Nick Wu

Contest has ended. No further submissions allowed.
